>> Jon Kuperman: Coming up on our kind
of final section here, and I think a lot
of this is now that we got all this
great information about focusability and
ARIA roles and tab content and
all this stuff.
How do we ensure that our
code bases are up to par and
how do we ensure that they stay up to par?
So kind of broken this
section of testing and
tooling down into a few
different subsections.
One of them being like,
how do you manually audit your website?
How do you check that things are working?
One of them being, how can you set up
CI/CD to guarantee that your website stays
accessible as you keep building things?
And then another one is Linters or
Authoring tools, basically,
as you're kind of writing your code,
what tools are out there to
help you stay accessible?
So gonna talk about a lot of things,
there's quite a lot of
competition in this space and honestly
I've used most of it and it's all great.
So if I recommend a certain auditing
tool and you have another one that you
like to use, please don't, I try to go by
most popular, not by best necessarily.
So if you've got some workflow that works
for you, that's great, the standard
is the standard, so if they're auditing
the standard, then that's fantastic.
>> Student 1: Cool, so one company
that I just like a lot is Deque.
>> Jon Kuperman: They've been in the space
forever, they do all sorts of cool tools.
They have a browser DevTool
called Axe DevTools.
They also have a JavaScript
library that does the same things,
I just can't say enough
good things about them.
They do accessibility consulting,
they make all sorts of cool tools,
they give cool conference talks.
If you're looking for
accessibility experts,
I think they're one of my highest
recommendations, they're great.
So they have this tool called Axe,
I find it extremely good.
It catches as much,
basically as much as you can catch
automatically as far as accessibility
violations go and it's free.
They have premium services where you can
hook things into regular runs and testing,
but it's just a very great tool.
So you can go ahead and get this as
an extension for Opera or Firefox or
Chrome or whatever your browser is and
it's very nice.
Google DevTools,
which now applies to the Edge DevTools and
all of the Google based browsers
like DuckDuckGo on Brave.
They come with Lighthouse and
we'll do a little Lighthouse look soon.
But essentially via Lighthouse you
can run an accessibility audit.
Here is a screenshot I took of just a page
where it is giving you a score out of 100,
as well as detailed instructions for
what it considers the kind
of accessibility violations.
And each one of them links to a nice
documentation page where you can kind of
see how to fix it.
These are quite similar acts in
Lighthouse, they're both great.
There's also this really cool one and
some of these more fun ones, the WebAIM,
which is the non-profit that we've been
using for our rules and instructions,
has this great wave tool.
There was a really other cool one,
which I think is called totally
by the folks at Khan Academy.
I think they've stopped supporting it
as much, but I kinda like these ones
where they decorate your website
with where the violations are,
kinda makes it very easy
to reason about and see.
Again, not recommending one over another,
but just really like the idea of having
some tool in your toolkit that you
regularly use to audit your site.
And it'll catch a lot of these easy
to spot and easy to automate errors,
which is nice.
Moving on to like, okay, so
let's say we've got that done.
We've done some audits,
we fixed some things.
We know our website's in a pretty good
spot and now we wanna keep it that way.
So there's lots of cool things
that you can add to your CI/CD,
whether it's like a Jenkins job or a
GitHub action, different things like that
that will run a similar suite of
automated tests and give you a report.
The caveat before we go further
is accessibility testing.
To do a really good job is always going to
need a certain degree of manual testing,
like we did the tab trapping that's
very hard to automate a test for.
But these tools are so
much better than nothing, so
I think that having these
CI/CD tools is fantastic.
But ideally you would still spend a bit of
time manually testing your features with
the stuff that we've learned today,
like turning on a screen reader,
trying to access every workflow with
the keyboard, that can go such a long way.
But Deque, the same team that makes Axe
also makes a product called Axe-core.
And Axe-core has this, you can plug it
in with whatever your CI/CD system is,
like Jenkins or whatever, where you just
do a run and then it returns results and
they either do or don't have violations.
So you can hook this up with
whatever your current CI/CD is and
they have full instructions on
how to do so on their GitHub.
In a similar vein,
Lighthouse also offers Lighthouse CI.
So for those that have used Lighthouse,
maybe for performance or SEO audits,
it also has accessibility audits, and
you can hook those up in a similar way.
They also offer it as a GitHub Workflow,
so it couldn't be easier.
If you're already on GitHub,
you can just add this Workflow and
on push you can just spin up a Linux
distro, do your install and run again.
This is all on their GitHub repo, so we
can kinda give that a check as well then.
Authoring tools these are abundant
if you're using a framework.
If you're using one of the main
frameworks like Vue or React or Angular,
that already come with great
accessibility plugins.
So they'll analyze your jsx, they'll do
things like, if you make an image tag,
they'll require you to have an alt tag for
it.
Or if you are making form
elements that don't have labels,
they'll flag that all as you're
developing for you, which is very nice.
Going a step further than that,
there's also design systems that come
with a ton of accessible functionality.
So the two that always stand out to
me are Adobe's React Spectrum and
Google's Material Design, which has
libraries for a variety of frameworks.
These will give you things like really
customizable dropdowns and input boxes and
sliders and
complex UI components that come out of the
box with a huge amount of accessibility.
Whether it's color contrast,
keyboard accessibility,
live regions as things update,
all of that stuff kind of bundled for you.
So if it's possible,
I highly recommend checking these out.
Again there's nothing stopping you from
rolling your own, especially armed with
the knowledge that we have now of how
to kind of test these things out.
But yeah, there's quite a lot of authoring
tools that I think are really great, and
you should be able to find one that fits
very nicely in whatever your current
stacking code base is.
At the very minimum, you can get
an HTML accessibility Linter that
will just at the very least,
lint your raw HTML.
Cool, so, yeah, these accessible
component libraries are really nice,
I've used React Spectrum for
a long time from Adobe.
They have a really nice website,
you can play with all their components.
Again, this isn't about how your
component will look visually,
you're free to style your
component however you'd like.
This is about all that other stuff,
just making sure that the screen reader
works well, that updates are read aloud,
that it works really well with
the keyboard and the arrow keys and
Escape closes it and Space triggers it,
all of these different things.
So they basically offer on the right
a whole list of pickers, collections,
buttons and then you can implement those
and style them however you'd like.
Google's material design is very similar.
>> Student 1: Yeah,
they might not be related to this, but
when we were talking about
the forms generally,
what's the best way way to handle
validations to screen reader?
>> Jon Kuperman: That's
a really good question.
Yeah, so form validation is quite a big
topic in general as far as like with
the screen reader, I would say that
you've got a few different things.
So making use of these semantic
components are fantastic because for
example input type email or
input type password, different things like
that they will register to the screen
reader and read aloud when you violate.
So they'll inject, I think it's like
yellow on Chrome it says invalid email
that will read aloud to
the screen reader by default.
So I think the first step I would say
is trying to use those kind of semantic
elements whenever possible
because they come with so
much functionality on top of that.
More than that,
I would say probably the thing to do would
be make sure that your form has a label
that there's some kind of DOM change
that happens when you fail a validation.
And, and to wrap that in a live
region would be really good.
So if you have a little span that's empty,
you wrap it in a sort of live region and
then you put invalid password in there,
whatever your validation is that'll
read aloud to the screen reader.
But always my first thing I grab for
is these standardized built in APIs
because they do all of that for you.
Great question.
>> Student 2: And just to add on to that,
in Marcy Sutton's web app accessibility
course, she does a little bit more
with JavaScript accessibility and
also form interaction and
kind of making landmark elements and
some of the built in form elements.
>> Jon Kuperman: That is awesome, yeah.
I actually do have a shout out to her
course at the end of this course, so yeah,
that's great, great.